feat: EON-1840 update forger docs and organization (#137)
HorizenOfficial/evm-documentation: docs/horizen_eon/07-tutorials/05-faq.md

---
title: Forger Node FAQ and Troubleshooting
---

## Frequently Asked Questions
### Stake Maturity
When a forger stake is created, it is not immediately ready to let the forger take part in the forgers' election. The stake will start to be accounted for in the slot leader lottery from the beginning of the **second consensus epoch** following the one where its creation happened.

For example: if the stake transaction was included in the middle of epoch 10, it will be accounted for from the beginning of epoch 12.

Each consensus epoch length is 15000 slots * 3 seconds per slot = 12h30minutes.

### How to verify the stake creation?
To make sure the operation was successful, make a `POST` request to `/transaction/allForgingStakes` and verify the publicKey used to create the forger stake appears in the returned list.

### When will I get a stake reward?

> The consensus Epoch is 12.5 hours long. or 15000 blocks x 3 second timeslots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consensus epoch is 12.5 hours long, or 15000 blocks x 3 second timeslots.
```

The chance a forger has to forger a block is the proportion of stake from the 2 previous consensus Epochs. This could be up to 25 hours ago.

> Regular payments are made to forgers every 100 mainchain blocks, or about every 250 minutes (4-5 hours). This is also known as the withdrawal Epoch.

Reviewer: I think `epoch` should be lowercase everywhere

- There is another user specified parameter in the transaction: maxFeePerGas - represents the maximum fee a user is willing to pay for a transaction. This parameter actually limits the maxPriorityFeePerGas with this rule: if ( baseFeePerGas + maxPriorityFeePerGas) > maxFeePerGas, then maxPriorityFeePerGas will be reduced in order to maintain the upper bound of the maxFeePerGas.
- Finally, we can have also legacy (non EIP-1559) transactions, with only a gasPrice parameter that we use for both maxFeePerGas and maxPriorityFeePerGas values

The baseFee in EON is collected in a pool and redistributed at the end of each withdrawal epoch to all the forgers of the epoch, proportionally to the number of blocks they forged in the epoch. (this is a distinction from the Ethereum protocol, where the baseFee is burned).

Additionally, each forger earns all the forger tips of the transactions included in the blocks he forgerd. Also forger's tips are redistributed at the end of each withdrawal epoch.

> Withdrawal epoch length is based on the number of mainchain blocks referenced by the sidechain: each epoch switch happens every 100 mainchain blocks. Given that in the mainchain a block is forged on average every 2 minutes and 30seconds, it takes approximately 4 hours to switch a withdrawal epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Withdrawal epoch length is based on the number of mainchain blocks referenced by the sidechain: each epoch switch happens every 100 mainchain blocks. Given that in the mainchain a block is forged on average every 2 minutes and 30 seconds, it takes approximately 4 hours to switch a withdrawal epoch.
```

Fee payments are calculated automatically by every node and enforced at consensus level. They can also be checked in the EON Explorer at this address: [https://eon-explorer.horizenlabs.io/fee-payments](https://eon-explorer.horizenlabs.io/fee-payments)

### How to check epoch slot data?
Use this http endpoint on the node to check the current epoch/slot: 
[https://github.com/HorizenOfficial/eon/blob/main/doc/api/block/forgingInfo.md](https://github.com/HorizenOfficial/eon/blob/main/doc/api/block/forgingInfo.md)

## General Troubleshooting

All forger commands are listed here:  

> [https://github.com/HorizenOfficial/eon/blob/main/doc/api/index.md](https://github.com/HorizenOfficial/eon/blob/main/doc/api/index.md)

Reviewer: Not necessarily a blocker, but I feel the text being linked shouldn't be a URL to an .md file.

For example `All forger commands are listed [here](https://github.com/HorizenOfficial/eon/blob/main/doc/api/index.md).`
